reference/frontend/editing-diagrams.md, before:

# Editing Diagrams

{% video controls="controls"%}images/edit-process.mp4{% endvideo %}

Regular BPMN diagrams only describe the business process itself. The standard does not include technical specifications (e.g. what server addresses are used or which configuration is needed at certain points).

To execute the BPMN diagram as a software we need to include such data in the diagram somehow.

The Camunda Modeler makes use of the BPMN XML format and defines extensions to declare these technical specifications.

We will be using these extensions - which are regular key/value pairs - to define the technical specifications using the process engine frontend.

> For more details visit the [official documentation](https://docs.camunda.org/manual/7.4/modeler/camunda-modeler/bpmn/) of the Camunda Modeler

## Service Tasks

A service task represents a task that can be executed without human intervention.

It is commonly used to
* fetch data from a HTTP REST API
* send a mail using a mail server
* execute a script on some machine

### Consuming a HTTP REST API

When consuming a HTTP REST API you can use the built-in `HttpService`.

Key | Value
---------|----------
 module | HttpService
 method | get
 params | ['http://api.fixer.io/latest']

You can use the HTTP methods `get`, `post`, `put` and `delete`.

#### Parameters

Index | Parameters | Type | Description
---------|----------|---------|---------
 0 | URI | string | The host URI of the HTTP REST API
 1 | Options | object | General request customization

The options have several properties on their own:

Parameters | Type | Description
----------|---------|---------
body | string | The HTTP request body
query | string or Array\<any\> | The HTTP request query parameters
headers | string or Array\<any\> | The HTTP request headers

### Sending mails

To send a mail you can use the built-in `MailService`.

Key | Value
---------|----------
 module | MailService
 method | send
 params | ['i@send-this-mail.de', 'i@receive-this-mail.de', 'mail subject', 'message']

#### Parameters

Index | Parameters | Type | Description
---------|----------|---------|---------
 0 | Sender | string | The senders mail address
 1 | Recipient | string | The recipients mail address
 2 | Subject | string | The mail subject
 3 | Body | string | The mail content
 4 | Attachments | Array<any> | The mails attachments

### Execute scripts

Sometimes you might want to directly enter a small script right inside the diagram. You can do this by using a script task.

Inside your script you can access the process token via `this`.
 
TODO: Video ScriptTask

Currently external resources are not supported for script tasks so you have to choose the _inline script_.

### Execute shell commands

To execute a shell command you can use the built-in `ShellService`.

Key | Value
---------|----------
 module | ShellService
 method | execute
 params | ['this command will be executed in your local shell']


### Execute domain code

Just like we did when [consuming a HTTP REST API](frontend.md#consuming-a-http-rest-api) or [sending mails](frontend.md#sending-mails), we can use any class registered to the IoC container to execute a method of our choice.

Key | Description
---------|----------
 module | The registration key of the class you want to execute a method on
 method | The method you want to execute
 params | An array of the parameters supplied to the method

## User Tasks

A user task represents those tasks of your business process that can only be dealt with manually.

It is commonly used to:
* get generic user input (form data)
* make decisions based on certain options
* validate data that legally has to be reviewed by a person rather than a machine

### Widgets

A widget can be referenced by an user task using following possible setups wihtin the ExtensionProperty-Tab

#### Confirm

A simple "show some text and choose from a set of buttons" - Scenario can be archieved by using the Confirm-Widget 

Key | Value
---------|----------
 uiName   | Confirm
 uiConfig | ${ "message": "This is my confirm message!", "layout": [ { "key": "confirm", "label": "Accept" }, { "key": "decline", "label": "Decline", "isCancel": true } ] }
 
#### Form

A simple form i.e. a set of form items can be archieved by using the Form-Widget.

Key      | Value
----------|----------
 uiName   | Form
 uiConfig | ${ "message": "This is my confirm message!" }

In order to setup the form items the Forms-Tab has to be used. Within the Forms-Tab the following form items are configurable. To add a form item, click the "+"-Button and enter an unique id within the ID-Field.
Now, depending on the value choosen in the Type-DropDown a certain widget implementation is used. Each form item should have a "Label" an can have a "Default Value".

##### DropDown

Use "enum" in the Type-Dropdown. 
Use the Values-Section in order to add entries for the Dropdown. Make sure to setup an unique key and a value which can be choosen.

##### RadioBox

Use "enum" in the Type-Dropdown. Also use "RadioBox" in an entry within the Property-Section using "uiName" as key. This will overwrite the default behaviour of choosing a DropDown instead.

##### CheckBox

Use "boolean" in the Type-Dropdown.

##### TextField <- Type: string or number

Use "string" or "number" in the Type-Dropdown.

##### DatePicker <- Type: date

Use "date" in the Type-Dropdown.

#### SelectableList

A simple list from which the user can select a set of elements can be archieved by using the SelectableList-Widget.

Key      | Value
----------|----------
 uiName   | SelectableList
 uiConfig | ${ "dataSource": [ { "id": "keyOfEntryA", "label": "Entry A" }, { "id": "keyOfEntryB", "label": "Entry A" } ], "thcSchema": [ { "name": "id", "thcProps": { "hidden": true, "dataField": "id", "isKey": true } }, { "name": "Label", "thcProps": { "dataField": "label"} } ]}

## Roles

Roles are an abstract way to declare who is responsible for something.

This is not restricted to human users, but also applies to machines that incarnate a certain role.

We can use this feature to tag elements in our diagram with a role.
This will cause the process engine to check whether the system currently executing the diagram satisfies these role restrictions.
If the role is not satisfied by the current system, it will try to find another known system that satisfies the role and continue the diagram execution on that system.

Example:

You could tag a user task with the role of a call center agent. If the user task is about to be executed, the process engine will continue the execution on a process engine client where a call center agent is logged in. If you got another role for a call center supervisor you could use that to mark tasks that only a supervisor is allowed to handle and it will only be executed on a client where a supervisor is logged in. 

## Gateways

A gateway can be used to model conditional execution paths. This includes some kind of condition for each following execution path.

Each condition can be configured by using a JavaScript expression on the flow following your gateway.

TODO: Video Gateway Expression (Heiko/Sebastian)

## Messages / Signals

Messages and Signals are basically the same - an event.

The emitting part of the event is declared by using a Message Boundary Event or a Signal Boundary Event.

TODO: Video Event Emit (Heiko/Sebastian)

To subscribe to an event you need to declare a Start event (that is a Message Start Event or a Signal Start Event) and choose which event to listen to.

TODO: Video Event Subscribe (Heiko/Sebastian)

## Mappings
TODO: document settings (Patrick)

Commit message:

update mappers, update bpmn implementation

reference/frontend/editing-diagrams.md, after:

# Editing Diagrams

{% video controls="controls"%}images/edit-process.mp4{% endvideo %}

Regular BPMN diagrams only describe the business process itself. The standard does not include technical specifications (e.g. what server addresses are used or which configuration is needed at certain points).

To execute the BPMN diagram as a software we need to include such data in the diagram somehow.

The Camunda Modeler makes use of the BPMN XML format and defines extensions to declare these technical specifications.

We will be using these extensions - which are regular key/value pairs - to define the technical specifications using the process engine frontend.

> For more details visit the [official documentation](https://docs.camunda.org/manual/7.4/modeler/camunda-modeler/bpmn/) of the Camunda Modeler

## Service Tasks

A service task represents a task that can be executed without human intervention.

It is commonly used to
* fetch data from a HTTP REST API
* send a mail using a mail server
* execute a script on some machine

### Consuming a HTTP REST API

When consuming a HTTP REST API you can use the built-in `HttpService`.

Key | Value
---------|----------
 module | HttpService
 method | get
 params | ['http://api.fixer.io/latest']

You can use the HTTP methods `get`, `post`, `put` and `delete`.

#### Parameters

Index | Parameters | Type | Description
---------|----------|---------|---------
 0 | URI | string | The host URI of the HTTP REST API
 1 | Options | object | General request customization

The options have several properties on their own:

Parameters | Type | Description
----------|---------|---------
body | string | The HTTP request body
query | string or Array\<any\> | The HTTP request query parameters
headers | string or Array\<any\> | The HTTP request headers

### Sending mails

To send a mail you can use the built-in `MailService`.

Key | Value
---------|----------
 module | MailService
 method | send
 params | ['i@send-this-mail.de', 'i@receive-this-mail.de', 'mail subject', 'message']

#### Parameters

Index | Parameters | Type | Description
---------|----------|---------|---------
 0 | Sender | string | The senders mail address
 1 | Recipient | string | The recipients mail address
 2 | Subject | string | The mail subject
 3 | Body | string | The mail content
 4 | Attachments | Array<any> | The mails attachments

### Execute scripts

Sometimes you might want to directly enter a small script right inside the diagram. You can do this by using a script task.

Inside your script you can access the process token via `this`.
 
TODO: Video ScriptTask

Currently external resources are not supported for script tasks so you have to choose the _inline script_.

### Execute shell commands

To execute a shell command you can use the built-in `ShellService`.

Key | Value
---------|----------
 module | ShellService
 method | execute
 params | ['this command will be executed in your local shell']


### Execute domain code

Just like we did when [consuming a HTTP REST API](frontend.md#consuming-a-http-rest-api) or [sending mails](frontend.md#sending-mails), we can use any class registered to the IoC container to execute a method of our choice.

Key | Description
---------|----------
 module | The registration key of the class you want to execute a method on
 method | The method you want to execute
 params | An array of the parameters supplied to the method

## User Tasks

A user task represents those tasks of your business process that can only be dealt with manually.

It is commonly used to:
* get generic user input (form data)
* make decisions based on certain options
* validate data that legally has to be reviewed by a person rather than a machine

### Widgets

A widget can be referenced by an user task using following possible setups wihtin the ExtensionProperty-Tab

#### Confirm

A simple "show some text and choose from a set of buttons" - Scenario can be archieved by using the Confirm-Widget 

Key | Value
---------|----------
 uiName   | Confirm
 uiConfig | ${ "message": "This is my confirm message!", "layout": [ { "key": "confirm", "label": "Accept" }, { "key": "decline", "label": "Decline", "isCancel": true } ] }
 
#### Form

A simple form i.e. a set of form items can be archieved by using the Form-Widget.

Key      | Value
----------|----------
 uiName   | Form
 uiConfig | ${ "message": "This is my confirm message!" }

In order to setup the form items the Forms-Tab has to be used. Within the Forms-Tab the following form items are configurable. To add a form item, click the "+"-Button and enter an unique id within the ID-Field.
Now, depending on the value choosen in the Type-DropDown a certain widget implementation is used. Each form item should have a "Label" an can have a "Default Value".

##### DropDown

Use "enum" in the Type-Dropdown. 
Use the Values-Section in order to add entries for the Dropdown. Make sure to setup an unique key and a value which can be choosen.

##### RadioBox

Use "enum" in the Type-Dropdown. Also use "RadioBox" in an entry within the Property-Section using "uiName" as key. This will overwrite the default behaviour of choosing a DropDown instead.

##### CheckBox

Use "boolean" in the Type-Dropdown.

##### TextField <- Type: string or number

Use "string" or "number" in the Type-Dropdown.

##### DatePicker <- Type: date

Use "date" in the Type-Dropdown.

#### SelectableList

A simple list from which the user can select a set of elements can be archieved by using the SelectableList-Widget.

Key      | Value
----------|----------
 uiName   | SelectableList
 uiConfig | ${ "dataSource": [ { "id": "keyOfEntryA", "label": "Entry A" }, { "id": "keyOfEntryB", "label": "Entry A" } ], "thcSchema": [ { "name": "id", "thcProps": { "hidden": true, "dataField": "id", "isKey": true } }, { "name": "Label", "thcProps": { "dataField": "label"} } ]}

## Roles

Roles are an abstract way to declare who is responsible for something.

This is not restricted to human users, but also applies to machines that incarnate a certain role.

We can use this feature to tag elements in our diagram with a role.
This will cause the process engine to check whether the system currently executing the diagram satisfies these role restrictions.
If the role is not satisfied by the current system, it will try to find another known system that satisfies the role and continue the diagram execution on that system.

Example:

You could tag a user task with the role of a call center agent. If the user task is about to be executed, the process engine will continue the execution on a process engine client where a call center agent is logged in. If you got another role for a call center supervisor you could use that to mark tasks that only a supervisor is allowed to handle and it will only be executed on a client where a supervisor is logged in. 

## Gateways

A gateway can be used to model conditional execution paths. This includes some kind of condition for each following execution path.

Each condition can be configured by using a JavaScript expression on the flow following your gateway.

TODO: Video Gateway Expression (Heiko/Sebastian)

## Messages / Signals

Messages and Signals are basically the same - an event.

The emitting part of the event is declared by using a Message Boundary Event or a Signal Boundary Event.

TODO: Video Event Emit (Heiko/Sebastian)

To subscribe to an event you need to declare a Start event (that is a Message Start Event or a Signal Start Event) and choose which event to listen to.

TODO: Video Event Subscribe (Heiko/Sebastian)

## Mappers

Sometimes it could be necessary to convert the process token before it is passed to the next following task. This can be done with a mapper property of a Sequence Flow in the Extensions panel.

Key      | Value
----------|----------
 mapper   | {newProperty: token.current.oldProperty}

The new object replaces the current process token. It's passed as JavaScript expression, not as JSON.
You can use the default variable 'token' to access the current process token or the token history.
